cloud data import: update data import docs as per new UI (#10265)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/config-s3-and-gcs-access.md

# Configure Amazon S3 Access and GCS Access

If your source data is stored in Amazon S3 or Google Cloud Storage (GCS) buckets, before importing or migrating the data to TiDB Cloud, you need to configure cross-account access to the buckets. This document describes how to do this.

## Configure Amazon S3 access

To allow TiDB Cloud to access the source data in your Amazon S3 bucket, take the following steps to configure the bucket access for TiDB Cloud and get the Role-ARN.

> 1. In the TiDB Cloud Console, get the TiDB Cloud account ID and external ID of the target TiDB cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the TiDB Cloud console, get the TiDB Cloud account ID and external ID of the target TiDB cluster.
```

# Configure Amazon S3 Access and GCS Access

If your source data is stored in Amazon S3 or GCS buckets, before importing or migrating the data to TiDB Cloud, you need to configure cross-account access to the buckets. This document describes how to do this.
  - [Configure Amazon S3 access](#configure-amazon-s3-access)
  - [Configure GCS access](#configure-gcs-access)

## Configure Amazon S3 access

To allow TiDB Cloud to access the source data in your Amazon S3 bucket, take the following steps to configure the bucket access for TiDB Cloud and get the Role-ARN. Once the configuration is done for one TiDB cluster in a project, all TiDB clusters in that project can use the same Role-ARN to access your Amazon S3 bucket.

1. In the TiDB Cloud Console, get the TiDB Cloud account ID and external ID of the target TiDB cluster.

    1. In the TiDB Cloud console, choose your target project, and navigate to the **Clusters** page.

>     2. Locate your target cluster, click **...** in the upper-right corner of the cluster area, and select **Import Data**. The **Data Import** page is displayed.

Author: ```suggestion
    
    2. Locate your target cluster, click **...** in the upper-right corner of the cluster area, and select **Import Data**. The **Data Import** page is displayed.
```

# Configure Amazon S3 Access and GCS Access

> If your source data is stored in Amazon S3 or GCS buckets, before importing or migrating the data to TiDB Cloud, you need to configure cross-account access to the buckets. This document describes how to do this.

Reviewer 2: “or migrating” is not supported

>   - [Configure Amazon S3 access](#configure-amazon-s3-access)
>   - [Configure GCS access](#configure-gcs-access)

Reviewer 3: No need to update? The original indentation and blank line are right format.
```suggestion

- [Configure Amazon S3 access](#configure-amazon-s3-access)
- [Configure GCS access](#configure-gcs-access)
```

>   - [Configure Amazon S3 access](#configure-amazon-s3-access)
>   - [Configure GCS access](#configure-gcs-access)

Author: ```suggestion
```

## Configure Amazon S3 access

> To allow TiDB Cloud to access the source data in your Amazon S3 bucket, take the following steps to configure the bucket access for TiDB Cloud and get the Role-ARN. Once the configuration is done for one TiDB cluster in a project, all TiDB clusters in that project can use the same Role-ARN to access your Amazon S3 bucket.

Reviewer 2: “Once the configuration is done for one TiDB cluster in a project, all TiDB clusters in that project can use the same Role-ARN to access your Amazon S3 bucket.” The premise of this sentence is  only when the role is created without  “Require external ID” . IF the role was created with account id and external id, only the correspond TiDB cluster could access the bucket.

Author: Revised as suggested.

> To allow TiDB Cloud to access the source data in your Amazon S3 bucket, take the following steps to configure the bucket access for TiDB Cloud and get the Role-ARN. Once the configuration is done for one TiDB cluster in a project, all TiDB clusters in that project can use the same Role-ARN to access your Amazon S3 bucket.

Author: ```suggestion
To allow TiDB Cloud to access the source data in your Amazon S3 bucket, take the following steps to configure the bucket access for TiDB Cloud and get the Role-ARN. 

- If the role is created without “Require external ID”, once the configuration is done for one TiDB cluster in a project, all TiDB clusters in that project can use the same Role-ARN to access your Amazon S3 bucket. 
- If the role is created with the account ID and external ID, only the corresponding TiDB cluster can access the bucket.
```

> If your source data is stored in Amazon S3 or GCS buckets, before importing or migrating the data to TiDB Cloud, you need to configure cross-account access to the buckets. This document describes how to do this.

Author: ```suggestion
If your source data is stored in Amazon S3 or Google Cloud Storage (GCS) buckets, before importing or migrating the data to TiDB Cloud, you need to configure cross-account access to the buckets. This document describes how to do this.
```

If your source data is stored in Amazon S3 or GCS buckets, before importing or migrating the data to TiDB Cloud, you need to configure cross-account access to the buckets. This document describes how to do this.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

If your source data is stored in Amazon S3 or GCS buckets, before importing or migrating the data to TiDB Cloud, you need to configure cross-account access to the buckets. This document describes how to do this.

## Configure Amazon S3 access

Before you configure the bucket access, note the following: 

> - If the role is created without “Require external ID”, once the configuration is done for one TiDB cluster in a project, all TiDB clusters in that project can use the same Role-ARN to access your Amazon S3 bucket. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- If the role is created without "Require external ID", once the configuration is done for one TiDB cluster in a project, all TiDB clusters in that project can use the same Role-ARN to access your Amazon S3 bucket. 
```

- If the role is created with the account ID and external ID, only the corresponding TiDB cluster can access the bucket.

To allow TiDB Cloud to access the source data in your Amazon S3 bucket, take the following steps to configure the bucket access for TiDB Cloud and get the Role-ARN. 

1. In the TiDB Cloud Console, get the TiDB Cloud account ID and external ID of the target TiDB cluster.

    1. In the TiDB Cloud console, choose your target project, and navigate to the **Clusters** page.
    

>     2. Locate your target cluster, click **Import Data** in the upper-right corner of the cluster area. The **Data Import** page is displayed.

Author: ```suggestion
    2. Locate your target cluster, click **...** in the upper-right corner of the cluster area, and select **Import Data**. The **Data Import** page is displayed.
```

>     2. Locate your target cluster, click **...** in the upper-right corner of the cluster area, and select **Import Data**. The **Data Import** page is displayed.

Author: ```suggestion
    2. Locate your target cluster, click **Import Data** in the upper-right corner of the cluster area. The **Data Import** page is displayed.
```

        > **Tip:**
        >

>         > Alternatively, you can also click the name of your cluster on the **Clusters** page and click **Import Data** in the  **Import** area.

Author: ```suggestion
        > Alternatively, you can also click the name of your cluster on the **Clusters** page and click **...** in the upper-right corner of the cluster area, and select **Import Data**. 
```

If your source data is stored in Amazon S3 or GCS buckets, before importing or migrating the data to TiDB Cloud, you need to configure cross-account access to the buckets. This document describes how to do this.

> - [Configure Amazon S3 Access and GCS Access](#configure-amazon-s3-access-and-gcs-access)

Author: ```suggestion
```

1. In the TiDB Cloud Console, get the TiDB Cloud account ID and external ID of the target TiDB cluster.

    1. In the TiDB Cloud Console, choose your target project, and navigate to the **Clusters** page.
    2. Locate your target cluster, click **...** in the upper-right corner of the cluster area, and select **Import Data**. The **Data Import** page is displayed.

        > **Tip:**
        >
        > Alternatively, you can also click the name of your cluster on the **Clusters** page and click **Import Data** in the  **Import** area.

>     3. On the **Data Import** page, click **Show AWS IAM policy settings** to get the TiDB Cloud Account ID and TiDB Cloud External ID. Take a note of these IDs for later use.

Author: ```suggestion
    3. On the **Data Import** page, click **Guide for getting the required Role-ARN** to get the TiDB Cloud Account ID and TiDB Cloud External ID. Take a note of these IDs for later use.
```

    3. Click **Next** to open the policy list, choose the policy you just created, and then click **Next**.
    4. Under **Role details**, set a name for the role, and then click **Create role** in the lower-right corner. After the role is created, the list of roles is displayed.
    5. In the list of roles, click the name of the role that you just created to go to its summary page, and then copy the role ARN.

        ![Copy AWS role ARN](/media/tidb-cloud/aws-role-arn.png)

4. In the TiDB Cloud console, go to the **Data Import** page where you get the TiDB Cloud account ID and external ID, and then paste the role ARN to the **Role ARN** field.

## Configure GCS access

To allow TiDB cloud to access the source data in your GCS bucket, you need to configure the GCS access for each TiDB Cloud as a service on the GCP project and GCS bucket pair. Once the configuration is done for one cluster in a project, all database clusters in that project can access the GCS bucket.

1. Get the Google Cloud Service Account ID of the target TiDB cluster.

>     1. In the TiDB Cloud console, locate your target cluster, click **...** in the upper-right corner of the cluster area, and select **Import Data**. The **Data Import** page is displayed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. In the TiDB Cloud console, locate your target cluster on the **Clusters** page, click **...** in the upper-right corner of the cluster area, and select **Import Data**. The **Data Import** page is displayed.
```

        ![Copy AWS role ARN](/media/tidb-cloud/aws-role-arn.png)

4. In the TiDB Cloud console, go to the **Data Import** page where you get the TiDB Cloud account ID and external ID, and then paste the role ARN to the **Role ARN** field.

## Configure GCS access

To allow TiDB cloud to access the source data in your GCS bucket, you need to configure the GCS access for each TiDB Cloud as a service on the GCP project and GCS bucket pair. Once the configuration is done for one cluster in a project, all database clusters in that project can access the GCS bucket.

1. Get the Google Cloud Service Account ID of the target TiDB cluster.

>     1. In the TiDB Cloud Admin console, choose a target project and a target cluster deployed on the Google Cloud Platform. Then click **...** in the upper-right corner of the cluster area and select **Import Data**.

Author: ```suggestion
    1. In the TiDB Cloud Admin console, choose a target project and a target cluster deployed on the Google Cloud Platform. Then click **Import Data** in the upper-right corner of the cluster area. The **Data Import** page is displayed.
```

>     1. In the TiDB Cloud Admin console, choose a target project and a target cluster deployed on the Google Cloud Platform. Then click **...** in the upper-right corner of the cluster area and select **Import Data**.

Reviewer: Would you please help update this step to use the same instructions as AWS? Thanks.

>     1. In the TiDB Cloud Admin console, choose a target project and a target cluster deployed on the Google Cloud Platform. Then click **...** in the upper-right corner of the cluster area and select **Import Data**.

Author: ```suggestion
    1. In the TiDB Cloud console, locate your target cluster, click **...** in the upper-right corner of the cluster area, and select **Import Data**. The **Data Import** page is displayed.
```
